---
title: ngConf 2015 - my goals
date: 2015-03-04
tags: [AngularJS, ngConf, 2015]
coverImage: ngConf1.jpg
coverCaption: Little America Hotel - venue for ngConf 2015
---

My company - [Odecee](https://www.odecee.com.au) - has kindly sponsored my attendance of [ngConf 2015](http://www.ng-conf.org/) in Salt Lake City, Utah. Woo-hoo!

<!-- more -->

The main things I'd like to get out of the conference are:

- A deeper understanding of Angular 2.0's fit and requirements.
  - Do I need to use `TypeScript` or `ATScript` to work with it?
  - How will that affect today's browsers (extra downloads, VMs to make it all work?)?
- What are the pros/cons of transitioning to ES6 now?
- What are some different ways that people are modelling their data?
  - I spoke to a dev today who shared how he's modelling all his views as components, so each component is responsible 
    for getting it's own data. This means that `ui-router`'s `resolve` block is being used, so screens transition
    immediately and then the data loads in afterwards. 
    - The view-composed-of-directive-elements is interesting, and sounds like it is more Angular 2.0-ish.
    - It actually reminds me of how I was building UIs in Adobe Flex back-in-the-day. Hmmmmm.
    - You would end up with more service calls (if multiple sibling-components want the same data), but that could be
      managed by caching your API responses.

## Live Blog

Over the next few days I'm going to attempt to get answers to some of these questions. **And I'm going to semi-live blog
the news from the conference right on this site!**

## So what do you want to find out?
Send in a comment (below) and I'll try to find out while I'm here.



